# An Autometic-Accident-Detection-System-A-Hybrid-Solution


Disaster is referred to a sudden event, such as an accident or a natural catastrophe that causes great damage or loss of life [1]. Scientists always tried their best to facilitate humans with several products, strategies and methodologies. As far as there is a concern of the human health issues, lots of way have been carved to accommodate humanity. From emergency actions to a long time patient care, quick response actions are necessary to avoid a lot of damages taking place in human life. In developing countries like Pakistan, a huge number of people die in road accidents than any other reason [2]. The major causes are not just accidents but unknown crash spots play signiﬁcant role. Even after a couple of hours of the tragedy, spot cannot be located to start rescue operation. In consequences, a lot of precious lives cannot save in time. After keeping human life in mind, this work presents an automatic accident detection system which is a savior of life. The proposed system has the capabilities to automatically detect an accident and quickly inform to the emergency services or concerned family member with precise location through Short Message Service (SMS). The contacted one can send rescue services as soon as possible. Since, there are a lot of occasions on which people have no access to any nearby hospital to get quick medical assistance
before the severe loss. In that situation, system will fulﬁll the gap between identiﬁcation and alert. The proposed system consists of hardware and software modules. The hardware module is based on the Arduino board with vibration sensor and accelerometer is deployed in vehicle. On the other hand, software part comprises an Android application that is installed on a persons mobile that is driving the vehicle. The rest of the paper is organized as follows: Section II presents literature review. Proposed system is described in section III. Section IV presents the conﬁguration and working of proposed system. The advantages of the system are given in section V. Finally, conclusion is drawn in section VI. 
